=head1 NAME

Catalog-Building Tutorial

=head1 Purpose

This document is a tutorial that guides you through constructing a
simple Interchange catalog. The demo catalogs that ship with
Interchange have become rather complex since they attempt to highlight
some of the many capabilities of Interchange offers. As a template for
your own catalog, the demos can be a somewhat intimidating place to
start.

The simple catalog you create in this tutorial should give you a feel
for the Interchange system. It should also be a stepping stone to a
more complete and functional ecommerce system built with Interchange.
To this end, this tutorial will take a minimum of initiative and rely
as much as possible on default settings. It will use as few of
Interchange's capabilities as possible, while still building a usable
store. The resultant site will be simple. It will be unappealing. Your
friends would make fun of you if you used it in real life. It should,
however, be instructive.

We encourage you to create the files used in this tutorial yourself.
Compared to just downloading ready-to-go files, you'll learn much more
when you create the directory structure and use your favorite text
editor to create files in the proper places on your own system as they
are discussed.

=head1 Preliminary

=head2 Install Interchange and the demo catalog

The easiest way to get Interchange and the demo set up is with an
I<RPM install>, on the Red Hat Linux or Linux Mandrake operating
systems. Another way is by unpacking an Interchange tarball, or
checking out a copy of the CVS repository, and doing a I<manual
installation>. To further complicate matters, this can be done either
as a regular user, or as root with a special Interchange user.

Detailed installation instructions are beyond the scope of this
document. However, you need to know which type of installation you
have so you know where to place the various files we will create.
Before going any further, verify that Interchange is properly
installed and the demo catalog runs as expected, and note which type
of installation you have:

=over 4

=item *

RPM (Red Hat Package Manager) install

=item *

Manual install as root

=item *

Manual install as regular user

=back

Huge amounts of frustration can be avoided by making sure that the
demo works correctly before venturing off on your own.

=head2 Why we need the demo catalog

In this tutorial, we want only to create a single installed catalog.
By contrast, we normally discuss catalog B<templates> such as
I<construct>, I<barry>, and I<simple>, from which one can create
multiple new catalogs, set up in various ways. The F<makecat> program
is used to generate individual catalogs from catalog templates, but we
want to avoid using it for this tutorial to keep things simple. So,
we're going to take a few shortcuts that rely on the demo catalog
having already been installed by F<makecat>.

Installing the demo catalog did a few things for us. First, it set up
the Interchange global configuration file F<interchange.cfg>, which
resides in the Interchange software directory. Second, it compiled the
link program for your specific server and placed the executable
program in your cgi-bin directory.

=head2 The Interchange operating system user

If Interchange was installed as a regular user, that will be the user
Interchange will run as. But if Interchange was installed as root or
from an RPM, you need to know the name of the separate Interchange
user. The Interchange daemon does not run as root, or even as the web
server user (often www or httpd or nobody), but rather as its own
user. Usually the username is C<interch>. If Interchange was installed
from RPM, or with the default source installation settings, this will
be the case. If a different user name was chosen, you will need to
find out what it is.

=head2 Important directories

In order to complete this tutorial you will need to know the location
of each of the following directories and have write permissions on
them:

=over 4

=item *

Interchange software directory

RPM install: /usr/lib/interchange

Manual install as root: /usr/local/interchange

Manual install as regular user: /home/username/interchange

=item *

Catalogs directory

RPM install: /var/lib/interchange

Manual install as root: /usr/local/interchange/catalogs

Manual install as regular user: /home/username/catalogs

=item *

cgi-bin directory

RPM install or source install as root (Red Hat 6, Linux Mandrake):
/home/httpd/cgi-bin

RPM install or source install as root (Red Hat 7): /var/www/cgi-bin

Manual install as root (locally installed web server):
/usr/local/htdocs, /opt/www, ...

Manual install as regular user: /home/username/public_html (with .cgi
extension)

=back

B<Note: >Installation of Interchange is extremely flexible and the
exact locations on your system may vary. Please do yourself a favor
and do not proceed until you are sure you have this information and
have the necessary permissions to write to these directories.

=head2 Your catalog URL

Finally, you need to know the URL to access your store from a web
browser. Again, this can vary widely depending on the setup of your
web server. But given a common setup of the Apache web server, it is
likely to be:

=over 4

=item *

Root or RPM install: C<http://localhost/cgi-bin/tutorial/pagename>

=item *

Manual install as user:
C<http://localhost/~username/tutorial.cgi/pagename>

=back

If you aren't running your web browser on the server itself, you'll
need to substitute your server's host name (something like
C<machine.domain.com>) for C<localhost> whenever we mention URLs.

=head2 Starting or restarting Interchange

You may have the Interchange server running already, but whenever you
change the configuration files you will need to restart the
Interchange server. How this is done depends (like so many other
things) on how you installed Interchange:

=over 4

=item *

RPM install as root:

C</usr/sbin/interchange -r>

=item *

Manual install as Interchange user:

C</usr/local/interchange/bin/interchange -r>

=item *

Manual install as root:

C<su interch -c '/usr/local/interchange/bin/interchange -r'>

=item *

Manual install as regular user:

C<~/interchange/bin/interchange -r>

=back

Find the right command for your system and remember it, as you'll need
to restart Interchange a few times during the tutorial.

=head2 Our assumptions

For the sake of simplicity, B<the remainder of this tutorial assumes
you've installed Interchange under Red Hat 7 from the RPM onto your
own workstation>. This gives us the following settings:

=over 4

=item *

Interchange software directory: /usr/lib/interchange

=item *

Catalogs directory: /var/lib/interchange

=item *

cgi-bin directory: /var/www/cgi-bin

=item *

Interchange user: interch

=item *

Demo catalog name: construct

=item *

Demo catalog URL base: http://localhost/cgi-bin/construct

=item *

Tutorial catalog name: tutorial

=item *

Tutorial catalog URL base: http://localhost/cgi-bin/tutorial

=item *

Tutorial catalog directory: /var/lib/interchange/tutorial

=back

Substitute the correct values for your system when we mention these
settings in the tutorial.

B<Note: >Unless you are fairly experienced with Unix, your web server,
and the basic layout of the Interchange software, we highly recommend
using the RPM installation with Red Hat Linux or Linux Mandrake.

=head1 Starting our catalog

=head2 Create the link program

We will now make a copy of the demo link program in your cgi-bin
directory and name it F<tutorial>.

The demo link program has the same name as your demo catalog, usually
C<construct>. This file links the Interchange daemon with your web
server. You need to make sure that it has the same owner and file
permissions as the one you copied from. Especially important is the
set-UID bit (unless you installed as a regular user). You will
probably need to be root to have write permission in the cgi-bin
directory.

Typing this command as root while in your cgi-bin directory should do
what you need:

 cp -p construct tutorial

If everything's working correctly, typing C<ls -l construct tutorial>
should describe your files roughly like this:

 -rwsr-xr-x    1 interch  interch      7708 Dec 16 22:47 construct
-rwsr-xr-x    1 interch  interch      7708 Dec 16 22:47 tutorial

=head2 Create the tutorial catalog directory

Create a subdirectory named F<tutorial> under your catalogs directory
(probably F</var/lib/interchange/>). This is where all of our
catalog-specific files will go. It needs to be readable, writable, and
executable by the Interchange user. We will refer to this as your
I<catalog directory> (singular, not plural). These commands, run while
in the catalogs directory, should do what you need:

 mkdir tutorial
chown interch.interch tutorial
chmod 770 tutorial

=head2 Become the Interchange user

From here on out, you should be able to do everything you need to do
as the 'interch' user. So do C<su interch> now. You'll have to supply
user interch's password if you weren't root. (If you installed
Interchange from RPM, user interch probably doesn't have a password.
You'll have to set it with the F<passwd> command while root.)

=head2 Go to the tutorial catalog directory

Change to the catalog directory with the 'cd' command now. B<From here
on out, all file locations will be given relative to the tutorial
catalog directory.> For example, F<pages/ord/basket.html> would
actually be F</var/lib/interchange/tutorial/pages/ord/basket.html> or
the equivalent on your system. The only exception is
F<interchange.cfg>, which is in the Interchange software directory and
is described below.

Note that to improve clarity, we will append a trailing slash to
directory names, to more clearly distinguish them from file names.
(This is similar to the output of the F<ls> command with the C<-F>
option.)

=head2 Create the session directory

You need to create the session directory, which is where Interchange
will save information on each visitor's browsing session. If you do
not have this directory, Interchange may fail to work for you in what
appears to be a mysterious way. This directory is called F<session/>
and goes under your catalog directory. A simple C<mkdir session>
should do the trick.

=head1 Configuration files

Interchange configuration is controlled by a number of directives,
which are specified in two kinds of configuration files. Global
configuration directives go in F<interchange.cfg> in the Interchange
software directory. Catalog-specific configuration directives go in
F<catalog.cfg> in the catalog directory.

A complete directive consists of the directive name followed by
whitespace-separated parameters. It doesn't matter how many spaces or
tabs are between the directive and its options, but the directive and
all its options must be on the same line (with a few exceptions that
don't concern us here). The case of the directive isn't important, but
it's recommended that you preserve the capitalization given for
readability and consistency.

You are free to insert blank lines or comment lines (lines where the
first non-blank character is '#') freely throughout the configuration
files to improve readability. The order the lines appear in is
significant, but won't matter for our simple catalog.

Now it's time to pull out your favorite text editor (vi, emacs, pico,
joe, gedit, and nedit are all favorites) and start editing some files.

=head2 interchange.cfg

The first directive we need to use is a global directive that tells
Interchange where our new catalog is. The B<Catalog> directive has the
following format:

 Catalog   name   catalog_base_directory   link_url_path

Open F<interchange.cfg> (remember, it is in the Interchange software
directory). Go near the top of the file, right below the other Catalog
directives. Add this line:

 Catalog  tutorial  /var/lib/interchange/tutorial  /cgi-bin/tutorial

That's it for this file! Save it.

=head2 catalog.cfg

From here on out, most of the files we mention don't exist yet. You'll
create them yourself with initial text we give.

We need to create a F<catalog.cfg> file for our tutorial store (back
in the tutorial catalog directory). We'll start with a very simple
products database table with a few fields and a few products.

The B<Database> directive describes a database table to the
Interchange system in this format:

 Database  name  filename  format

Interchange has several database options available. We will use the
simplest, which is the built-in default (specifically, some variant of
DBM). The default location for I<filename> is in a subdirectory called
F<products> under the catalog directory. Interchange recongnizes a
number of file formats. We will use a tab-delimited text file. Enter
this line into F<catalog.cfg>:

 Database  products  products.txt  TAB

This tells Interchange that we have a database table named 'products'
which is described in a tab-delimited file named F<products.txt>. You
can describe an unlimited number of arbitrary database tables for the
system to use this way. Since Interchange is at heart an electronic
commerce system, it expects to find at least a database table of
products. We can specify all of the database tables that contain
products by using the B<ProductFiles> directive. There is no default
for this, so we will have to specify our products database by adding
the following line to F<catalog.cfg>:

 ProductFiles  products

There are a few other directives which Interchange expects to see in
order to complete our minimum configuration. These are B<VendURL>,
B<SecureURL>, and B<MailOrderTo>. These are, respectively, your
catalog's base URL, its secure URL, and the e-mail address to mail
order notices to. We will supply these by adding the following lines
to F<catalog.cfg>:

 VendURL  http://localhost/cgi-bin/tutorial
SecureURL  http://localhost/cgi-bin/tutorial
MailOrderTo  your@email.address

Your first brand-new file, F<catalog.cfg>, should look like this when
you save it:

 Database  products  products.txt  TAB
ProductFiles  products
VendURL  http://localhost/cgi-bin/tutorial
SecureURL  http://localhost/cgi-bin/tutorial
MailOrderTo  your@email.address

=head1 The products database table

=head2 products/products.txt

Create the F<products/> directory in your tutorial catalog directory
now.

The F<products/products.txt> file will serve two purposes. It will
provide Interchange with the layout of the products database table and
it will provide the data. When Interchange parses the products.txt
file it will expect the first line to contain the names of the fields
for the database table. The first field in the list is expected to be
a primary key (unique identifier) for that row. In this case we are
going to use the SKU (stock keeping unit) as the unique identifier for
each product.

The product database is handled as a special case by Interchange. It
expects to find at least a description and a price field in addition
to the product ID. In other words, this file must at least contain
fields named "sku", "price", and "description". Any other fields you
wish to include are handled normally.

Since this is kind of a test catalog, let's sell tests. Digging
through my files, I find the following tests from classes I've taken.
Create the file F<products/products.txt> to look like this, with a
single tab separating each field:

 sku     description     price
4595    Nice Bio Test   275.45
2623    Stack of Econ Quizzes   1.24
0198    Really Hard Physics Test        1589.34
1299    Ubiquitous diff eq final        37.00

B<Note: >When using tab-delimited files as we are, make sure you have
exactly one tab between each field. Some text editors will use spaces
to simulate tabs. Interchange expects actual ASCII tab characters, and
spaces or anything else will mess things up.

You may notice (or you may not) that the columns don't line up in your
text editor. If you are tempted to fix this to make it easier to read,
maybe you missed my warning.

=head1 Page templates

Now we need something to display. Let's start by assuming that certain
aspects of our site will remain the same as the content of the
different pages changes. We are going to create a template that we can
use for all of our pages. We'll divide our pages into four sections
like so:

 _____________________
|                     |
|         top         |
|                     |
|---------------------|
|      |              |
|      |              |
| left |     main     |
|      |              |
|      |              |
|---------------------|
|                     |
|        bottom       |
|_____________________|

The main section holds the content which will be different for each
page. The top is for headers, banners, menus and the like. The left
could be used for a sidebar or something similar, and the bottom can
be the copyright and contact info. The top, left, and bottom sections
will remain constant throughout the site.

Now create the HTML for each template section in its own plain text
file in the catalog directory, named simply 'top', 'left', and
'bottom', respectively. Why no '.html' suffix on these? Mostly to make
clear that they're not meant to be parsed directly by Interchange as
full pages. Why no '.txt' suffix? To make our [include] tags simpler
(as you'll see below). And because we can.

=head2 top

  <html>
  <head>
  <title>The Interchange Test Catalog</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  <div align=center>
  <table width="80%" border cellpadding=15>
  <tr><td colspan=2 align=center><h1>The Interchange Test Catalog</h1></td></tr>

=head2 left

  <tr>
  <td align=center>(left)</td>
  <td align=center>

=head2 bottom

  </td>
  </tr>
  <tr><td colspan=2 align=center>(bottom)</td></tr>
  </table>
  </div>
  </body>
  </html>

Since this isn't an HTML tutorial, there will be no commentary on
these fragments.

=head2 Interchange Tag Language

Now we need a way to pull the template pieces into the proper places
on our pages to make a complete page. It's time to introduce you to
ITL, the Interchange Tag Language.

ITL is at the heart of almost all Interchange catalog pages. It's how
you tap Interchange's functionality. The tags spoken of appear between
square brackets like [this]. Options appear after the tag, separated
by whitespace, like this: [tag value1 value2] and this: [tag
option1=value1 option2=value2]. They may span multiple lines. (That
can help readability when the tag has many options.) There are many
tags, and we will only scratch the surface of what can be done. Please
refer to the ITL Tag Reference for full details.

Our first tag will be [include], which reads the file mentioned
(relative to the catalog directory), parses any Interchange tags, and
puts the result in place of the tag. We'll see how this works on the
page we need to create next.

=head1 A welcome page

=head2 pages/index.html

Create a directory called F<pages/> in your tutorial catalog directory
now.

Now we will create a very simple page to test that everything works so
far. Type the following text and save it as F<pages/index.html>:

 [include top]
[include left]
This is where our content goes.
[include bottom]

Let's see if it works. Restart Interchange so your changes take
effect. Now go to your web browser and load the page. The URL should
look like C<http://localhost/cgi-bin/tutorial/index.html>.

B<Note: >Before we go on, we should mention that Interchange pages in
the F<pages/> or other directories B<must> have the .html suffix on
them. You may drop the suffix in your URL and other places such as the
[page] tag you'll learn about later, but the file name itself must
have the suffix.

=head1 Troubleshooting

Hopefully your first Interchange page worked well. If it didn't,
you'll need to try to figure out what went wrong. The vast majority of
the time, overlooked details is the problem. Double-checking your
typing is a good habit to get into.

Here is a troubleshooting checklist that will come in handy whenever
you run into problems:

=over 4

=item 1.

Have you created directories with the proper names in the proper
locations? (See Appendix A for a full directory and file structure of
our tutorial catalog.)

=item 2.

Have you misspelled any file names or put them in the wrong
directories? Are the files and parent directories readable by the
I<interch> user? Double-check with the F<ls> command.

=item 3.

Did you type letters in the proper case? Remember that both Unix and
Interchange are case-sensitive, and for the most part you may not
switch upper- and lower-case letters.

=item 4.

Did you type all punctuation, ITL tags, and HTML tags correctly?

=item 5.

Did you type whitespace correctly in the cases where it mattered?
Remember to use tabs when tabs are called for (in lists and database
text files).

=item 6.

Did you restart Interchange if you changed anything in
F<interchange.cfg> or F<catalog.cfg>, or if you're in a high-traffic
mode?

=item 7.

Check your catalog error log, F<error.log> in your tutorial catalog
directory, to see if Interchange reported anything of interest.

=item 8.

Check the Interchange server error log, F<error.log> in the
Interchange software directory, to see if it had problems loading the
catalog at all.

=item 9.

View the HTML source of any catalog pages that are messed up. The
problem may reveal itself when you see what HTML the browser is
getting.

=back

=head1 Displaying products

=head2 Listing all products

Now that we have the store running let's display our products on the
welcome page. We will loop over all of the products in our database
and produce an entry for each one in a table. Replace the line "This
is where ..." in F<pages/index.html> with the following:

 <table cellpadding=5>
<tr>
<th>Test #</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Price</th>
</tr>

. . .

</table>

Now we will use Interchange tags to fill in the rest of the table from
our products database. The [loop] [/loop] pair tells Interchange to
iterate over each item provided in the parameter list. In this case
the loop is over the result of an Interchange search. The search
parameter does a database search on the provided parameters. In this
case, we're doing a very simple search that returns all of the fields
for all of the entries in the products database. The parameters passed
to the search tell Interchange to I<return all> ('ra') on the file
('fi') I<products> respectively. The following code should take the
place of the above ellipsis in F<index.html>:

 [loop search="ra=yes/fi=products"]

. . .

[/loop]

Inside the loop we access the individual elements of the entry using
the [loop-field] tag. The following code should replace the above
ellipsis in F<pages/index.html>:

 <tr>
<td>[loop-code]</td>
<td>[loop-field description]</td>
<td align=right>[loop-field price]</td>
</tr>

The [loop-code] tag refers to the primary key (unique identifier) for
the current row of the database table in question. Here it will
produce the same output as [loop-field sku], because the 'sku' field
is the primary key for table products.

In each case the tag is replaced by the appropriate element. Put it
all together and Interchange will generate a page with your products
table on it. Your finished page should look like this:

 [include top]
[include left]
<table cellpadding=5>
<tr>
<th>Test #</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Price</th>
</tr>
[loop search="ra=yes/fi=products"]
<tr>
<td>[loop-code]</td>
<td>[loop-field description]</td>
<td align=right>[loop-field price]</td>
</tr>
[/loop]
</table>
[include bottom]

Now is a good time to test this. Go ahead and refresh the
C<index.html> page in your browser.

=head2 pages/flypage.html

Now let's go ahead and create an individual page for each item. All we
have to do is to create a special generic page called
F<pages/flypage.html>. When a page is requested that does not exist in
the F<pages/> directory, Interchange will check and see if the
requested page has the same name as a product ID from the product
database table (in this case a SKU). If it does, it will show the
flypage for that product. If there's no product with that ID, the
special error page F<special_pages/missing.html> (described in the
next section) will be displayed.

For example, if we request F<0198.html>, Interchange will first check
for a page with that name. When it doesn't find one, it will search
the products database table and see there is a product with that ID.
Then it will create a product page "on the fly" using
F<pages/flypage.html>. When constructing the flypage, the entire
product record for the requested product is available via the
[item-field] tag (much like the [loop-field] tag). So, let's create
F<pages/flypage.html> like so:

 [include top]
[include left]

<h3>Test #[item-code]</h3>
<p>[item-field description] . . . [item-field price]</p>

[include bottom]

To provide links to the product flypages from our home page we will
modify F<pages/index.html> slightly, so that:

 <td>[loop-field description]</td>

becomes:

 <td><a href="[loop-code].html">[loop-field description]</a></td>

=head1 Unknown URL error page

=head2 special_pages/missing.html

Create the F<special_pages/> directory in your tutorial catalog
directory now. (B<Not> in the F<pages/> directory!)

We mentioned above that Interchange wants to display an error page
when it is asked for an unknown page. Let's create
F<special_pages/missing.html> for this purpose. Make it look like
this:

 [include top]
[include left]
<p>Page not found, good buddy.</p>

<p>[page index]Go to welcome page[/page]</p>
[include bottom]

That will ensure users see a mildly friendly message instead of a
mysterious server error if they mistype a URL.

=head1 The shopping basket

=head2 A link for ordering

Now that we have the products available for perusal, let's add a
shopping cart so that folks can actually purchase our wares. For this
we will use the [order] [/order] tags. These create an HTML link which
will cause the specified item to be ordered and then will transfer the
shopper to the basket page. This is actually just a built-in shortcut
to the complete order process which uses an HTML form submission
process. The parameter for the [order] tag is the product ID. To add
these tags to the catalog, make the following change to
F<pages/index.html>:

  <tr>
  <td>[loop-code]</td>
  <td>[loop-field description]</td>
  <td align=right>[loop-field price]</td>
+ <td>[order [loop-code]]order now[/order]</td>
  </tr>
  [/loop]

B<Note: >The line to add is marked by a '+'. Do not include the '+'.
The other lines are shown to give you context. (This style is called a
"context diff" and will be used frequently.)

=head2 pages/ord/basket.html

Create the directory F<pages/ord/> inside the tutorial catalog
directory now. In other words, you should have an F<ord/> I<inside>
the F<pages/> directory.

For the [order] tag Interchange will expect a default page called
F<pages/ord/basket.html>. This page will display the contents of the
shopping basket as well as have other shopping basket functionality.

The Interchange demo store has a full-featured shopping basket
available for you to use, but we'll cobble our own simple one
together. The shopping basket items can be accessed using a set of
tags which have an [item] prefix. Let's put this text in the new file
F<pages/ord/basket.html> first and then we'll discuss the tags used in
it:

 [include top]
[include left]

<h2>This is your shopping cart!</h2>

<table cellpadding=5>

<tr>
<th>Qty.</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Cost</th>
<th>Subtotal</th>
</tr>

[item-list]
<tr>
<td align=right>[item-quantity]</td>
<td>[item-field description]</td>
<td align=right>[item-price]</td>
<td align=right>[item-subtotal]</td>
</tr>
[/item-list]

<tr><td colspan=4></td></tr>

<tr>
<td colspan=3 align=right><strong>Total:</strong></td>
<td align=right>[subtotal]</td>
</tr>

</table>

<hr>

<p>
[page checkout]Purchase now[/page]<br>
[page index]Return to shopping[/page]
</p>

[include bottom]

The basket items can be accessed one at a time by using the
[item-list] tag. So we will create a table by iterating through the
basket items. The text within the [item-list] [/item-list] tags is
created for each item in the list.

=over 4

=item *

[item-quantity] will show the quantity of this item ordered. If the
same item is ordered multiple times, this quantity will increase.

=item *

[item-field description] shows the I<description> from the product
database table. Any field which is not special to Interchange can be
accessed from the shopping cart this way.

=item *

[item-price] is the per-item price which is defined in the product
database table.

=item *

[item-subtotal] is the total cost of this order line. This is
nominally price multiplied by quantity but can also take into account
other considerations, such as various kinds of price discounts.

=item *

[subtotal] is the calculated shopping basket subtotal.

=item *

[page index]...[/page] creates a link to the catalog welcome page.

=back

Now we will also put a link in the index page so that shoppers can go
to their shopping cart without ordering something. Modify the end of
F<pages/index.html> thusly:

  </table>
+ <hr>
+ <p align=center>[page order]View shopping cart[/page]</p>
  [include bottom]

Go ahead and test out the shopping basket in your browser.

=head1 Order checkout

=head2 pages/checkout.html

We can now complete the site by adding the ability to check out with
the shopping cart and finalize the order. To do this we want the
customer to provide a shipping address (which we will lazily assume is
the same as the billing address), and payment information. We will
process the order by verifying their payment information and sending
an email to the merchant (ourselves) detailing the order.

We'll start by creating a checkout page. The checkout page will
consist of a form that takes the pertinent information from the
customer and performs a simple credit card number check. In this case
we'll use the built-in test that only checks to see if a given card
number could be valid. If all of the information is acceptable the
customer will move on to the next phase of the order process. If it is
not, an error page will be displayed.

Let's create F<pages/checkout.html> and then we can discuss it step by
step. This page is a bit more complex than the others, but don't be
intimidated. Most of it is just standard HTML form coding.

 [include top]
[include left]
<h1>Checkout Page</h1>

<form method=post action="[process]">
<input type=hidden name=mv_todo value=submit>
<input type=hidden name=mv_order_profile value=order_profile>
<input type=hidden name=mv_cyber_mode value=minivend_test>

<table cellpadding=3>

<tr>
<td align=right><b>First name:</b></td>
<td><input type=text name=fname value="[value fname]"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=right><b>Last name:</b></td>
<td><input type=text name=lname value="[value lname]"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=right rowspan=2><b>Address:</b></td>
<td><input type=text name=address1 value="[value address1]"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><input type=text name=address2 value="[value address2]"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=right><b>City:</b></td>
<td><input type=text name=city value="[value city]"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=right><b>State:</b></td>
<td><input type=text name=state value="[value state]"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=right><b>Postal code:</b></td>
<td><input type=text name=zip value="[value zip]"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=right><b>Country:</b></td>
<td><input type=text name=country value="[value country]"></td>
</tr>

</table>

<p>
Note: We assume that your billing address is the same as your shipping address.
</p>

<table cellpadding=3>

<tr>
<td align=right><b>Credit card number:</b></td>
<td><input type=text name=mv_credit_card_number value="" size=20></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=right><b>Credit card expiration date:</b></td>
<td>
Month (number from 1-12):
<input type=text name=mv_credit_card_exp_month value="" size=2 maxlength=2>
<br>
Year (last two digits only):
<input type=text name=mv_credit_card_exp_year value="" size=2 maxlength=2>
</td>
</tr>

</table>

<p>
<input type=submit name=submit value="Finalize!">
<input type=reset name=reset value="Reset">
</p>

</form>

<p>[page index]Return to shopping instead[/page]</p>
[include bottom]

First we begin an HTML form with a method of 'post' (which sends the
form data as its own stream, as opposed to the 'get' method which
encodes the data as part of the URL). The [process] tag creates a
special URL for form processing. Interchange has a built-in form
processor which is configured by submitting certain fields in the
form. The Finalize button will invoke this form processor and then
link the user to the F<special_pages/receipt.html> page (described
later).

We will submit some hidden form values which will tell Interchange how
to process this form. The first value B<mv_todo> has the value of
I<submit>; this causes the form to be submitted for validation. The
second value sets B<mv_order_profile> to I<order_profile>. The order
profile determines the validation process for the form. We'll go into
this in the next section.

Lastly we set B<mv_cyber_mode> to be I<minivend_test>. The
B<mv_cyber_mode> value determines which method will be used to charge
a credit card. The value of I<minivend_test> tells it to use the
internal test method which calculates a simple checksum against the
card to determine whether it is a valid number.

When preparing an order for processing, Interchange looks for certain
named fields in the form values for name, address, and credit card
info. We are using all of the expected field names in this form so
that no translation has to take place.

Have a look at the checkout page in your browser. The "Finalize!" link
won't work yet, of course.

=head2 etc/profiles.order

Create the F<etc/> directory in the tutorial catalog directory now.

Now we need to set up verification for the order form. This involves
defining an order profile for the form. Create F<etc/profiles.order>
as follows and then we'll discuss the various features.

  __NAME__ order_profile

  fname=required
  lname=required
  address1=required
  city=required
  state=required
  zip=required

  &fatal=yes
  &final=yes

  __END__

A single file can contain multiple profile definitions. First the
profile is named using the I<__NAME__> pragma. (This is unrelated to
the __VARIABLE__ syntax seen elsewhere in Interchange.) We then list
the fields from the form which are required. The B<&fatal> setting
indicates that validation will fail if any of the requirements are not
met. B<&final> indicates that this form will complete the ordering
process. This setting is useful if you have a multi-page ordering
process, each of which you wish to validate as you go through them.
The I<__END__> pragma signals the end of this profile, after which you
are free to begin another one.

In order to make your order profile effective, add the following
B<OrderProfile> directive to the bottom of F<catalog.cfg>:

  OrderProfile etc/profiles.order

=head2 special_pages/needfield.html

If the submitted form lacks a required field, Interchange will display
an error page. The default location is
F<special_pages/needfield.html>. A simple example of this page is:

 [include top]
[include left]
<p>You left something important out:</p>

<p><b>[error all=1 show_var=1 show_error=1 joiner='<br>']</b></p>

<p>Please go back to the [page checkout]checkout page[/page]
and fill the form out properly.</p>

[include bottom]

The important tag here is [error]. The output for this tag with these
parameters is terse. The B<all> parameter tells it to iterate through
all of the errors reported from the failed verification. The
B<show_var> parameter indicates that the failed variable should be
displayed. For example, if the first name was left empty, I<fname>
would be shown. Then B<show_error> displays the actual error for the
variable. The B<joiner> parameter says that an HTML I<<brE<gt>> tag
should go between each error message, that is, each error should be on
its own line. In more complex configurations, the [error] tag can be
much more expressive.

=head2 Credit card processing

For this tutorial, we are going to implement a very simple order
process. To this end, we will add one more directive to the file
F<etc/profiles.order>:

  &fatal=yes
  &final=yes
+ &credit_card=standard keep

  __END__

This issues two instructions to the credit card system.

The first option B<standard> uses the standard built-in encryption
algorithm to encrypt the credit card number and then erases the
unencrypted copy from memory. We are using the standard option not to
encrypt the number (in fact we aren't even going to define an
encryption program) but to run the checksum verification on the number
to verify that it is at least a potentially correct number. We will
not be checking with a real payment processor to see if it is actually
a valid card number. For testing purposes, you can use the card number
4111 1111 1111 1111, which will pass the checksum test.

The second option B<keep> keeps the credit card number from getting
removed from memory. We wish to keep the number in memory so that it
is available later in the process, when it is mailed as part of the
order.

If this passes and all of the required fields are present, then the
customer will be sent to the final page indicating success. Behind the
scenes, Interchange will move on to send mail to the store owner
(you).

=head2 etc/report

When the customer's involvement in the order is complete, Interchange
will then compose an email and send it to the recipient defined in the
MailOrderTo directive in F<catalog.cfg>. The default location for the
template of this email report is F<etc/report>. Interchange tags can
be used to fill in blanks in the body of the message.

For it to be useful, the report will need to include the customer's
name and address, as well as the items they ordered. The following is
a simple report template which will report this information. Save it
as F<etc/report>.

             Name: [value fname] [value lname]
          Address: [value address1][if value address2]
                   [value address2][/if]
City, State, etc.: [value city], [value state]  [value zip] [value country]

    Credit Card #: [cgi mv_credit_card_number]
  Expiration Date: [cgi mv_credit_card_exp_month]/[cgi mv_credit_card_exp_year]


************ ORDER ************
[item-list]
[item-quantity] x [item-description] ([item-code]), [item-price] ea.
[/item-list]
Subtotal: [subtotal]
   Total: [total-cost]

This file is in plain text format, where white space is relevant,
unlike HTML. It is fairly straightforward, except that we have added
the [if] tag to only include the optional second address line if the
shopper filled it in.

One of the special properties of the I<mv_credit_card_number> field is
that Interchange specifically precludes it from getting saved so that
it persists throughout the session. Thus it is unavailable to us in
the [value] tag. The B<[cgi]> tag can be used to circumvent this
important security measure and get the value submitted from the last
form.

B<WARNING!> Obviously it would be a bad idea to send a real credit
card number over an insecure channel like email. We are doing this
purely for academic purposes. In a real configuration, you would
absolutely want to encrypt the number in a secure fashion before
emailing or storing it anywhere. You ignore this important security
warning at your own peril.

=head2 special_pages/receipt.html

Once the report has been run, Interchange will finish things on the
customer's end by displaying a success screen. We are just going to
show a nice "Thank you for ordering stuff from us" type of page. The
default location for this page is F<special_pages/receipt.html>:

 [include top]
[include left]
<p>Thank you for ordering stuff from us.<br>Have a nice day!</p>
<p>[page index]Return to our welcome page[/page]</p>
[include bottom]

That's it. Once the order is processed, the customer's shopping cart
is emptied.

At this point you have a more-or-less fully dysfunctional store.
Congratulations.

=head1 Enhancing the catalog

Now that we have a working catalog, we can go back and add little
improvements here and there and test them incrementally. We'll walk
through several together and then suggest more enhancements you can
figure out on your own.

=head2 Price pictures

It's probably really been annoying you that the product prices aren't
formatted as prices usually are. You may have even added a dollar sign
($) before the [loop-field price] tag in your F<pages/index.html> file
to help out. But that still didn't make the thirty-seven dollar price
of the "Ubiquitous diff eq final" test show up as "$37.00" -- instead
it was simply "$37". (Assuming you didn't change the price from our
sample data and your system locale is the same as ours.) The way to
deal with this is an Interchange feature called I<price pictures>.

There are several properties of price pictures: the currency symbol,
the thousands separator, the decimal point, the number of digits to
show behind the decimal, and so on. Many Unix systems will have U.S.
currency and English as the default locale, which we call C<en_US>.
The only thing we need to do on such a system is specify the currency
symbol, the dollar sign. To do this, add the following line to your
F<catalog.cfg> file:

 Locale en_US currency_symbol $

Restart Interchange and go look at your catalog. You'll notice little
changed on the welcome page or the flypages, but in the shopping cart,
all your prices should be formatted as U.S. dollars usually are:
"1347.3" becomes "$1,347.30". This is because Interchange
automatically formats shopping cart prices as currency. To turn off
this feature, you would have to change the [item-price] tag to
[item-price noformat] in F<pages/ord/basket.html>.

But that's probably not what you want to do. You're probably more
interested in formatting your other prices as currency. To do that,
simply use the [currency] [/currency] tag pair wherever prices show
up. Make this change to F<pages/index.html>:

  [loop search="ra=yes/fi=products"]
  <tr>
  <td>[loop-code]</td>
  <td>[loop-field description]</td>
- <td align=right>[loop-field price]</td>
+ <td align=right>[currency][loop-field price][/currency]</td>
  </tr>
  [/loop]

B<Note: >The line that begins with '-' should be deleted. Do not type
the '-' or anything after it. The next line that starts with '+'
replaces it.

A similar change to the C<[item-field price]> tag in
F<pages/flypage.html> will fix that page. Now take a look in your
browser. All your prices should look pretty.

If your prices are not being formatted correctly, your default system
locale may be set up differently or your C<en_US> locale settings may
be wrong. There are a few other F<catalog.cfg> directives you can use
to correct the situation:

 Locale en_US p_cs_precedes 1

That will make the currency symbol precede the currency value. A '0'
setting will make the symbol come after the currency value.

 Locale en_US mon_thousands_sep ,

That sets your thousands separator to a comma. You can set it to
whatever you want.

 Locale en_US mon_decimal_point .

That should be pretty obvious too. Many countries use a comma instead
of a period to separate the integer from the decimal part.

Consult the Interchange documentation and your operating system manual
for more information on locale settings.

=head2 Catalog variables

Interchange has provides a very useful feature that we haven't used
yet: catalog variables. This is a way for us to set a variable to a
certain value in our F<catalog.cfg> file, then use it anywhere in our
catalog pages. The B<Variable> directive causes an Interchange catalog
variable to be created, with the name taken from the first parameter
and the value from the rest of the line, like this:

 Variable SOMENAME whatever value you want

To access that variable in your pages, use a token with the pattern
__SOMENAME__. Note that there are two underscore characters before the
variable name and two more after the name, and that in place of the
word SOMENAME you put the actual name of the variable. Interchange
will replace the token with the variable's value before anything else
is done to the page. The value can even include Interchange tags to be
parsed.

=head2 A slightly more interesting page footer

Let's put a contact email address at the bottom of each page in case
our loyal customers would like to get in touch with us. You could just
add it to the footer, but by putting it in a variable, you can use it
in contact pages as well. Then later on it's easy to change in one
place and be reflected in many places. Set a catalog variable in
F<catalog.cfg> like this:

 Variable CONTACT_EMAIL someone@your.domain

Now make the following change to your template file F<bottom>:

  </td>
  </tr>
- <tr colspan=2><td>(bottom)</td></tr>
+ <tr colspan=2><td><a href="mailto:__CONTACT_EMAIL__">Contact us</a>
+ if you have any questions.</td></tr>
  </table>
  </div>
  </body>
  </html>

Make sure to restart Interchange before reloading the page in your
browser, since we've changed F<catalog.cfg>.

Let's add another variable to our catalog. This time it will contain
an Interchange tag that returns the current date in a nice format. Add
this to F<catalog.cfg>:

 Variable DISPLAYDATE [tag time]%A, %B %d, %Y[/tag]

The [tag] tag is documented in the Interchange Tag Reference. The
format strings inside [tag time] are documented in your system
strftime(3) manual page. We won't discuss them further here.

Now add the variable to the boring F<left> template piece:

  <tr>
- <td align=center>(left)</td>
+ <td align=center>__DISPLAYDATE__</td>
  <td align=center>

Restart Interchange and try it out.

=head2 Fancy credit card expiration date selection

To reduce human error at checkout time, most online stores use
pull-down option menus to list the months of the year and the years
for the credit card expiration date, instead of expecting the user to
type the numbers by hand. This also lets you avoid explaining whether
the user should enter 2- or 4-digit years.

The following change to your F<pages/checkout.html> gives you just
such an enhancement. (You may want to read the explanation below
before typing it in so you know where tabs should be used instead of
spaces, and where to watch out for `backticks`.)

  <tr>
  <td align=right><b>Credit card expiration date:</b></td>
  <td>
- Month (number from 1-12):
- <input type=text name=mv_credit_card_exp_month value="" size=2 maxlength=2>
- <br>
- Year (last two digits only):
- <input type=text name=mv_credit_card_exp_year value="" size=2 maxlength=2>
+
+ Month:
+ <select name=mv_credit_card_exp_month>
+ [loop
+    lr=1
+    option=mv_credit_card_exp_month
+    list="
+ 1     01 - January
+ 2     02 - February
+ 3     03 - March
+ 4     04 - April
+ 5     05 - May
+ 6     06 - June
+ 7     07 - July
+ 8     08 - August
+ 9     09 - September
+ 10    10 - October
+ 11    11 - November
+ 12    12 - December"]
+ <option value="[loop-code]">[loop-pos 1]
+ [/loop]
+ </select>
+
+ Year:
+ <select name=mv_credit_card_exp_year>
+ [comment]
+    This should always return the current year as the first, then
+    seven more years.
+ [/comment]
+ [loop option=mv_credit_card_exp_year lr=1 list=`
+   my $year = $Tag->time( '', { format => '%Y' }, '%Y' );
+   my $out = '';
+   for ($year .. $year + 7) {
+     /\d\d(\d\d)/;
+     $last_two = $1;
+     $out .= "$last_two\t$_\n";
+   }
+   return $out;
+ `]
+   <option value="[loop-code]">[loop-pos 1]
+ [/loop]
+ </select>
+
  </td>
  </tr>

  </table>

In the first set of <select> </select> tags we generate a list of the
months to choose from. We accomplish this by using a B<[loop]> tag. In
this case we are looping over an explicit list. We provide the list in
the I<list> parameter. Be careful with this, as it is sensitive to
formatting--which the formatting of this document may not reflect. You
want to make sure that the numbers are the first characters on each
new line and that the elements are tab-separated. Since the columns in
this list are not named the first element can be accessed using
B<[loop-code]> or B<[loop-pos 0]>, with subsequent elements being
accessed by B<[loop-pos N]> where N is the element you want. Notice
that the elements are zero-indexed. Each time through this loop
Interchange will generate a select <option> with a number as the value
and the name of the month as the text for the select menu.

For the next set of <select> </select> tags we use embedded Perl to
generate the list which is iterated over. Perl code can be embedded in
Interchange pages in order to extend the abilities of the system. Make
sure you typed backticks (grave accents) after "list=" and before the
closing bracket, and not apostrophes. This code generates an entry for
each of seven years in addition to the current year. It is not
necessary at this point for you to understand this Perl code.

=head2 Sorting the product list

You may have noticed that the products listed on your welcome page are
shown in the same order you entered them into
F<products/products.txt>. As you add more products, you'll want this
list to show up in a nice, predictable order. We need to change the
search parameters in F<index.html>, which originally were:

 [loop search="ra=yes/fi=products"]

You'll recall that 'ra' stands for 'return all' and 'fi' stands for
file. Let's use the search parameter 'tf', which specifies the sorB<t
f>ield. We can specify the field either by name or by number (starting
with 0), with names and order as given in the first line of
F<products/products.txt>). Let's change the search in F<index.html>
to:

 [loop search="ra=yes/fi=products/tf=price"]

Now take a look. That's not quite what we wanted. The default ordering
is done on a character-by-character basis, but we actually want to do
a numeric sort here. We need to set 'to', the sorB<t o>rder, to 'n',
for I<numeric>:

 [loop search="ra=yes/fi=products/tf=price/to=n"]

That should work better. Now try reversing the sort order by adding
'r' to the 'to' setting:

 [loop search="ra=yes/fi=products/tf=2/to=nr"]

You'll notice it worked equally well to specify the sort field by
number instead of name. We can also do a reverse alphabetical sort by
description, silly as that may be:

 [loop search="ra=yes/fi=products/tf=1/to=r"]

Let's try narrowing our search down a bit. We'll no longer be
returning all; instead, we'll give 'se', the B<se>arch spec, and turn
on 'su', which allows B<su>bstring matches. Let's look only for
products that have the word "test" in one of their fields somewhere,
and sort the results by description, like this:

 [loop search="se=test/su=yes/fi=products/tf=description"]

Which seems like something that would be better done in a search box
for our store visitors. Before we go on, let's change this search back
to the simple list, sorted by description:

 [loop search="ra=yes/fi=products/tf=description"]

=head2 A search box

Our customers would appreciate the ability to search for a test by SKU
or part of the test description. Let's help them out. First, we'll add
a search box to the hitherto unused left portion of our page layout.
Make this change to the file F<left>:

  <tr>
- <td align=center>__DISPLAYDATE__</td>
+ <td align=center>
+ <form action="[area search]" method=post>
+ Search:<br>
+ [set testname]su=yes/fi=products/sf=sku/sf=description[/set]
+ <input type=hidden name=mv_profile value=testname>
+ <input type=text name=mv_searchspec size=15 value="">
+ </form>
+ <hr>
+ __DISPLAYDATE__
+ </td>
  <td align=center>

This is a simple HTML form with a single input box for text. The
action goes to a special Interchange processor called 'search' that
will perform our search and pass the results to a still-nonexistent
page called F<pages/results.html>.

The [set testname] ... [/set] tags set an Interchange 'value'
variable, which in this case we will use as a predefined search
profile. We specify all the search parameters except the one the user
will enter, 'mv_searchspec' (the long name for 'se'). We then tell
Interchange we want to use this search profile in a hidden form tag
named 'mv_profile'.

Our search box will now appear on all our catalog pages, but we still
need to create the search results page. Interchange will go to
F<pages/results.html> to display search results. Let's create it now:

 [include top]
[include left]
<h3>Search Results</h3>
[search-region]
  [on-match]
    <table cellpadding=5>
    <tr>
    <th>Test #</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Price</th>
    </tr>
  [/on-match]
  [search-list]
    <tr>
    <td>[item-code]</td>
    <td><a href="[item-code].html">[item-field description]</a></td>
    <td align=right>[item-field price]</td>
    <td>[order [item-code]]order now[/order]</td>
    </tr>
  [/search-list]
  [on-match]
    </table>
  [/on-match]
  [no-match]
    <p>Sorry, no matches were found for '[cgi mv_searchspec]'.</p>
  [/no-match]
[/search-region]
<hr>
<p align=center>[page index]Go to welcome page[/page]</p>
<p align=center>[page order]View shopping cart[/page]</p>
[include bottom]

The search results will all be contained within [search-region]
[/search-region] tags. The text in the [on-match] [/on-match]
container will only be displayed if there matches were found for the
search, while text in the [no-match] [/no-match] will only be
displayed if no matches were found. The [search-list] [/search-list]
container functions just like [loop] [/loop], iterating over its
contents for each item in the search results list.

That's all there is to it.

=head2 Default catalog page

As you know, a standard Interchange catalog page URL looks like:

 http://localhost/cgi-bin/tutorial/index.html

But what happens if you leave off the page name, as people often do
when typing URLs in by hand? Try:

 http://localhost/cgi-bin/tutorial

And you get a nasty server error message. We can deal with this by
adding a directive to F<catalog.cfg>:

 SpecialPage catalog index

Now restart Interchange and try the above URL again.

If you want to make the welcome page something other than
F<pages/index.html>, just modify the 'index' part of the directive
appropriately.

=head2 High-traffic changes

All through the tutorial we've created catalog pages that use the
[include] tag to include template pieces into our pages. This has
worked well for us, but there are a few drawbacks. One is that if we
want to rename any of the template piece files, or move them out of
the main catalog directory and into their own subdirectory, we would
have to update the [include] tags on every page. To avoid this, we can
set up catalog variables set to the [include] tags. Add these lines to
your F<catalog.cfg> file:

 Variable TOP    [include top]
Variable LEFT   [include left]
Variable BOTTOM [include bottom]

Now just change every instance of [include top] to __TOP__, and so on
for each [include] tag. You may not feel like doing a bunch of
search-and-replace on all the .html files you just created, but it's a
good idea to use this capability in the next catalog you work on.

If you made all the replacements and then renamed and moved your
F<top> file, you would only have to make a single change for each
region in F<catalog.cfg> to get all your pages up to date:

 Variable TOP    [include templates/main-top]

And so on, depending on your naming scheme.

Another concern is that every time a catalog page is viewed, each file
in an [include] tag must be loaded from disk anew. In a test
situation, this takes no noticeable amount of time at all. But on a
very busy Interchange server, this can start to slow things down
somewhat.

We can switch to a high-traffic mode that doesn't require that each
template piece be read from disk every time the page is hit. Instead,
all the pieces are read into variables once when Interchange is
started and they remain in memory from then on. On very busy
Interchange catalogs, this can speed things up noticeably. The only
drawback is that you must restart the Interchange daemon whenever you
make changes to the template pieces in order to have the changes take
effect. You can set up high-traffic templates by changing the Variable
directives in F<catalog.cfg> as follows:

 Variable TOP    <top
Variable LEFT   <left
Variable BOTTOM <bottom

=head1 Ideas for further enhancements

You can expand your skill with Interchange by adding more
functionality to your test catalog. Here are some relatively simple
ideas to get you started:

=over 4

=item *

Send the customer a receipt by email

=item *

Allow customer to specify item quantities

=item *

Generate a unique order number for each order

=item *

Store each order in a database

=item *

Interface with GnuPG or PGP to encrypt credit card numbers in email
reports

=item *

Organize your products into categories and group lists by category

=back

Catalog directory structure

This diagram shows the directory and file structure used for the
'tutorial' catalog we built. The base will be a directory with the
name of your catalog:

  tutorial/
  |
  |----bottom
  |----catalog.cfg
  |----error.log *
  |----etc/
       |----profiles.order
       |----report
  |----left
  |----pages/
       |----checkout.html
       |----flypage.html
       |----index.html
       |----ord/
            |----basket.html
       |----results.html
  |----products/
       |----products.gdbm *
       |----products.txt
  |----session/
       |----(many subdirectories and files) *
  |----special_pages/
       |----missing.html
       |----needfield.html
       |----receipt.html
  |----tmp/ *
  |----top

* denotes files that are automatically created by Interchange at run
time. The name of F<products.gdbm> may vary on your system depending
on your Perl setup and default system DBM libraries.

Document history

October 2000. Conceived and written by Sonny Cook.

December 2000. Edited and expanded by Jon Jensen.

January 2001. Proofread and clarified by Alison Smith and David Adams.

12 January 2001. First public release.

 ________________________________________

Copyright 2001 Akopia, Inc. Freely redistributable under terms of the
GNU General Public License.

