=head1 NAME

Interchange Introduction

=head1 INTRODUCTION TO INTERCHANGE(TM)

Akopia's Interchange is the industry's most widely distributed and
implemented  open source e-commerce  platform. The software is
equipped with a wide range of features that make it the most
comprehensive, reliable, and cost-effective option available today.
This introduction provides a background on Interchange, an overview of
its capabilities, a description of how it works, and answers a number
of frequently asked questions.

=head2 Background

Interchange is a descendent of Vend, an e-commerce solution originally
developed by Andrew Wilcox in 1995. In the five years that followed,
Mike Heins expanded and enhanced Vend, creating a more powerful and
versatile tool, MiniVend. MiniVend grew to support thousands of
businesses and their e-commerce sites. However, despite the fact that
MiniVend was feature-rich, it lacked an intuitive administrative
interface. A similar product, called Tallyman, had the features that
MiniVend lacked. It was intuitive and had better content management
features, but lacked some of MiniVend's transactional capabilities.

During the same period of time, an experienced e-commerce development
team founded Akopia. Their goal was to create a sophisticated open
source e-commerce platform that was both feature-rich and easy to use.
Akopia acquired both MiniVend and Tallyman and integrated them to
create Interchange.

=head2 Overview

Based on years of evolution and experience in the open source
community, Interchange offers an extensive feature set usually only
associated with costly enterprise applications.

Interchange is a high-end, fully customizable software system with
complete database functionality. It provides flexible page display,
search, and order entry capability. Interchange can support catalogs
of over a million items with excellent performance. Interchange also
has the capability be used for many applications besides shopping
carts, such as a complete database-oriented content display system.

Interchange can work with a web server that supports Secure Sockets
Layer (SSL), allowing encrypted transmission of sensitive customer
data. This capability makes entering credit card numbers practical and
secure. In addition, it supports online payment systems and advanced
encryption.

A single Interchange server can support a large number of independent
Interchange catalogs, allowing an Internet Service Provider (ISP) to
serve many different customers from one or just a few Interchange
server processes. As many as 2,000 Interchange catalogs have been run
on one machine from the same server process.

=head1 HOW INTERCHANGE WORKS

This section describes how Interchange works.

=head2 The Vend Concept

The basic concept of implementing Interchange remains unchanged from
Vend. Interchange maintains a unique set of pages, outside of regular
HTML space, which contain special tags that are interpreted by the
program. The tags provide access to special Interchange functions
within the Interchange server.

These Interchange tags, which are in C<[square brackets]> format, have
a wide variety of functions. Some examples are:

=over 4

=item User Form Input

Interchange recalls input by a user so that it can be easily passed
from form to form. The value of any form variable is "remembered" and
inserted upon finding a C<[value input_field]> tag. The C<input_field>
is a normal HTML form field.

=item Database Contents

Interchange can support an unlimited number of attached databases,
either in one of its own internal formats or one of a number of
popular SQL databases, and in any database with an ODBC interface. The
contents of a database can be referenced with tags, i.e., C<[data
table=products column=name key=334-12]> or C<[query sql="select * from
products where category = 'Clothing'"]>.

=item Session Parameters

Session parameters, as the name suggests, include information specific
to the particular user and his or her current interaction with
Interchange. The parameters include the location where the user
originally found the catalog C<[data session referer]>), the domain
they are from (C<[data session host]>), the source of the hit in a
partner program (C<[data session source]>), the time of their last
access (C<[data session time]>), and so on.

=item Embedded Perl Versus ASP

Interchange has a powerful object system that allows direct access to
Perl and to external programs. An ASP-like syntax can be used, or the
traditional Interchange tag approach can be employed.

=item File Contents or Program Output

The contents of an outboard file can be inserted with C<[file
directory/file]> or C<[include directory/file]>. It is also possible
to include the output from an arbitrary program.

=item Searches of Files

Interchange supports a variety of search engines, including
I<Glimpse>, a popular open source search engine. It can also process
the output from custom SQL database queries.

=back

There are over 80 distinct Interchange tags that support hundreds of
functions. In addition, Interchange allows user-defined tags to be
created. User-defined tags are as powerful as Interchange's standard
tags.

=head2 A Typical User Session

The customer discovers a merchant site using the Interchange catalog
with a search engine, a link from another page, or a click-through
from a banner ad. He or she clicks the link, which is a URL pointing
to the Interchange CGI link program (generically called VLINK or
TLINK). The link calls the Interchange server through a socket. The
Interchange server detects the path information from the link, and
loads the corresponding page.

The displayed page contains links to either locate or order items from
the merchant's catalog. When the customer clicks a link to purchase an
item, Interchange searches the product database, finds the item, and
places it in the customer's shopping cart. (Each user has a separate
shopping cart, which is attached to their session.)

Once the customer decides to purchase the items in their shopping
cart, he or she checks out by completing a form with their name,
address, payment information, shipping information, and any other
information that may be required. Interchange has the capacity to
compute sales taxes and shipping cost. The order is then submitted.
The customer's payment can be taken online by real-time electronic
payment, or their order information may be transmitted using encrypted
email or FAX to a processing center.

The customer's order is saved to a file or to a database table as
backup. In the case of fully automated systems, it can be sent
directly to an order entry program or database link.

All of these operations are fully configurable. The Interchange demo
program includes a sample store called Construct Something. Some users
have actually customized the text and images inside Construct
Something's sample catalogs, changed the database entries, and opened
their store. Most users, however, have built their catalogs using
their own distinctive look and feel.

=head2 How Interchange Manages Sessions

Normally, each request for a web page stands on its own. While the
server is usually able to identify the particular machine that was the
source of a request, it may not know if the next request comes from
the same browser or even from the same user on that machine.
Interchange automatically keeps track of each user session by one of
two methods:

=over 4

=item Cookies

Interchange can issue cookies that contain the user session ID. If the
user returns the cookie, then the user can be presented pages without
accompanying session information.

=item URL Re-Writing

If the user doesn't want to use cookies, Interchange will include a
session ID in the URL. This is a random-looking piece of text that is
unique for each customer browsing the catalog. The text allows
Interchange to sort information presented to the system from
simultaneous users.

=back

=head2 Page Delivery in CGI-BIN

Pages in the catalog served by Interchange running as a CGI-bin
program generate a special URL for every link. For example:

http://www.mystore.com/cgi-bin/simple/browse1?id=WehUkATn&pc=122&ar=99-102

The following is a description of each part of the URL link:

=over 4

=item www.mystore.com

The Internet address of the server hosting the Interchange catalog.

=item cgi-bin

Informs server that the requested page will be generated by a program.
This can be HTTP server-specific.

=item simple

The name of the program to be run. This is Interchange's VLINK or
TLINK. The link program is a small compiled program that connects the
web server to the Interchange server. The Interchange server remains
running in the background, fully initialized, and able to quickly
process requests.

=item browse

The page of the catalog to display.

=item id=WehUkATn

The session ID. This is used if cookies are not enabled.

=item &

Separates the session ID from other parameters (normal HTTP).

=item mv_arg=99-102

An argument usable by Interchange to select page display options.

=item &

Separates an argument from other parameters (normal HTTP).

=item mv_pc=122

A unique integer (or source code, if it contains a letter) that
prevents caching servers from caching the URL.

=back

=head2 Page Delivery in HTML

Interchange pages are written in regular HTML with extensions (the
Interchange tags) to support catalog ordering. Interchange extensions
look like this:

<A HREF="[href specials]">See our specials!</A>

Pages are delivered through the following steps:

=over 4

=item 1.

The HTTPD server (Apache, Netscape, or NCSA are examples of HTTP
servers) receives a request for an Interchange page.

=item 2.

The server is already running as a daemon, and the request calls a
small compiled C program (source is vlink.c or tlink.c) that is named
according to which catalog is being called. This program communicates
with the Interchange program using a UNIX- or INET-domain socket.

=item 3.

Interchange reads the source page from the Interchange pages directory
and interprets the Interchange tags in the file. If the page doesn't
exist and corresponds to a part number in the database, it is
dynamically built using a template page. In the process, it can read
or modify any number of database tables. If the user's browser doesn't
accept cookies, any links generated on the page will contain the
session ID, which is needed to ensure the user's session is retained.

=item 4.

The page, which is now entirely in regular HTML, is delivered to the
HTTP server, which returns it to the browser.

=back

=head1 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS

This section describes the technical requirements needed to run
Interchange.

=head2 Perl

Interchange 4.6 requires Perl version 5.005 or higher. Perl 5 can be
downloaded from any CPAN (Comprehensive Perl Archive Network) site.
See the following site:

http://www.perl.com/CPAN/

In addition, on systems that do not have GDBM or DB_File installed,
SQL is recommended because large, resident catalog databases will use
large amounts of memory.

=head2 Perl Modules

The core functions of Interchange can run with a stock Perl, but some
features of Interchange (like the administrative interface) require
additional modules. If using a UNIX server, use the CPAN module and
run the following command:

   perl -MCPAN -e 'install Bundle::Interchange'

This command should install all of the necessary modules, except
DBM/DBI. The following modules are strongly recommended:

   Digest::MD5
   MIME::Base64
   SQL::Statement
   URI::URL
   Safe::Hole
   Bundle::LWP (contains MIME::Base64 and URI::URL)
   GDBM or DB_File (comes with most i386 Perls)

The following modules are required:

   Storable
   Business::UPS (comes with Interchange)

The following modules are not essential:

   Term::ReadLine::Perl
   Term::ReadKey

The DBI module is required if using SQL, along with the appropriate
DBD module for your database.

=head2 Operating System

The UNIX Operating System is highly recommended. Mac OS/Finder and
Microsoft Windows platforms are not supported. Interchange will run on
Mac OS/X.

=head2 Machine

A 400MHz Pentium or equivalent computer with 128MB of RAM is
recommended. This machine can serve many catalogs, if that is all it
does.

If a site is located on a machine with hundreds of domains, as
sometimes happens with low-cost hosting operations, expect some
problems. It is difficult to maintain a stable environment with
numerous users.

=head2 If Problems Occur

Akopia is interested in making Interchange as reliable and
trouble-free as possible and provides support for Interchange. Forward
bug reports, questions and comments to the bug reporting system,
Bugzilla, found at http://developer.akopia.com.

Interchange offers fee-based technical support through it's Technical
Services Group. Help can also be found through the community of
developers subscribing to the user group on the Akopia Developer
Resource site.  Akopia makes full source code of the current version
of Interchange available on the Akopia web site :

   http://www.akopia.com

Frequently asked questions and documentation are also available on the
Akopia web site. There is a search feature that encompasses the
documentation, FAQs, and an archived mailing list.

=head1 FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

=head2 Can you tell me more about MiniVend, Interchange's ancestor?

MiniVend was originally based on Vend created by Andrew Wilcox. Vend
was written in the early part of 1995, and the first released version
was 0.2. The first version of MiniVend was based on that. It added
searching and DBM catalog storage. Subsequent versions took parts from
Vend 0.3, especially the VLINK and Server.pm modules, which were
adapted to run with MiniVend.

The first release of MiniVend (0.2m7) was on December 28, 1995, and
quickly proved to be a more powerful and versatile tool than Vend.
Thousands of businesses depend on MiniVend for their e-commerce sites.

=head2 How does Interchange compare with other shopping carts?

Interchange is a comprehensive e-commerce solution that includes
shopping cart functionality capable of maintaining databases
containing hundreds of thousands of items. Interchange is
database-based and can be customized to meet the most complex shopping
cart requirements.

Interchange is recommended when a site has:

=over 4

=item 1.

100 or more items in its catalog.

=item 2.

many different catalogs maintained by the same organization.

=item 3.

a product offering that will frequently change.

=item 4.

a need for programmable product display.

=item 5.

a need for complex ordering interaction.

=item 6.

soft goods delivery after real-time charge of credit cards.

=item 7.

a need for flexible searching and categorization options.

=back

Interchange may not be the right choice when a site has:

=over 4

=item 1.

only a few items.

=item 2.

items that do not change frequently.

=back

Consider a commercial product when a site has:

=over 4

=item 1.

a need for power, but users who will interact only through a site
building system like MS FrontPage or Netobjects Fusion.

=item 2.

a need to interact only through a GUI like Windows and not edit files.

=back

=head2 What type of program is Interchange?

Interchange is not just a script. It is a combination of many
programs, Perl modules, and links to other subsystems such as SQL
databases, CyberCash, PGP, and the Glimpse search engine.

Interchange is a complete database access and retrieval application.
It uses no more memory than a large database server. It is optimized
for catalogs of more than a hundred items and catalogs that expect to
change and grow over time.

=head2 Can I use Interchange with my existing static catalog pages?

Yes, but it is recommended that you convert to the data-driven model.
Interchange is designed to build pages based on templates from a
database. If it is used only as a shopping cart, use a simpler
program. It is not difficult to convert existing static pages to
Interchange, but maintaining them can be difficult.

To place an order link on a page, use the following:

<A HREF="/cgi-bin/simple/order?mv_order_item=SKU_OF_ITEM">Order!</A>

Replace C</cgi-bin/simple> with the path to your Interchange link.

=head2 Will Interchange run on an ISP?

The majority of ISPs provide some CGI service, and an increasing
number run systems that are compatible with Interchange. The catalog
configurator for Interchange is designed to figure out many ISP
directory setups.

Interchange requires a stable platform. Many ISP servers are heavily
loaded, especially low-cost ones. If Interchange is run on a server
that is constantly running out of memory and file descriptors, the
results will be unsatisfactory.

Virtual servers that do not provide shell access are not usable for
Interchange without direct support from the ISP. It can be done on
some virtual servers.

=head2 Why is Interchange a daemon?

A daemon is a program that always is running in the background on the
system. Interchange runs as a daemon in the normal course of events.
Some examples of programs that run as daemons (in most cases) are:

=over 4

=item 1.

HTTP server (Apache, etc.).

=item 2.

MySQL, mSQL, Oracle, and other SQL servers.

=item 3.

Sendmail.

=back

Interchange takes time to compile and load even on the fastest
systems. It has many configuration options, and can serve hundreds of
catalogs. If it were to be loaded every time a user accessed it, it
would be unusable. The daemon approach allows a rich set of features
to be accessed fast. The actual CGI program (VLINK or TLINK) is a
small program written in C that communicates with the Interchange
daemon.

When a configuration file is modified, Interchange must be informed so
that it can reload the information and reconfigure its operation as
needed. This is done by either restarting the server or using the
I<reconfig> script to reconfigure an individual catalog.

=head2 Is Interchange secure?

Interchange uses the Perl Safe.pm module for user-embedded Perl
subroutines and conditionals. However, there are several potential
problems with credit card number security that can be avoided:

=over 4

=item 1.

Unencrypted credit card numbers stored on disk.

If Interchange's capability for encrypting credit card numbers or the
real-time payment (CyberCash, etc.) interface is not used, there will
be unencrypted credit card numbers present in session database files.
If the system is the target of a break-in, these numbers would be
available to any user ID that can read the session files. This is the
reason Interchange defaults to read/write permission for the
Interchange user only.

=item 2.

Unencrypted credit card numbers sent via email.

The same things apply for orders sent from email. If it is not
encrypted with PGP, it is at risk. The default demo also stores the
orders in the file etc/tracking.asc, so check there as well if
scrubbing existing credit card numbers from a disk.

=item 3.

Running in INET mode from another machine.

When using INET mode, and the transmission is going from the network
to another machine (i.e., not localhost), be concerned about which
wires the SSL-encrypted data is traveling through. The server should
be behind a firewall, firewall router, or at least some sort of
spoofing-protected filter.

=item 4.

Running SQL databases without C<WRITE_CONTROL> or other permission
blocks.

It is possible to enter arbitrary SQL in some search definitions.
Though Interchange tries to block non-select calls, this is not
guaranteed. It is recommended that certain tables be read-only for
Interchange, i.e., no insert or update permission. For tables that
must be updated, i.e., userdb, transactions, and orderline, use the
C<WRITE_CONTROL> capability and the C<NoSearch> directive to protect
them.

=item 5.

Running with AllowGlobal set.

This allows the user programming the catalog to do anything the
Interchange user ID can, and also disables the Safe.pm checking for
embedded Perl code. It is strongly recommended that global UserTag
routines be written instead of using C<AllowGlobal>.

=back

=head2 What HTML editors work with Interchange?

None, though by accepting a performance penalty many Interchange tags
can be embedded inside of regular HTML. For example:

   [pragma no_html_parse 0]
    <A HREF="[href minivend_page]">Link</A>
    <SCRIPT LANGUAGE=MV MV="set Action">
        mv_todo=return
        mv_nextpage=your_page
    </SCRIPT>

Many Interchange pages will have to be edited by hand. Some HTML
editors have a tag like <NOTOUCH></NOTOUCH> that defines regions which
should not be wrapped or reformatted by the editor. It is recommended
that these tags be used.

In addition, if uploading a page from a Mac or PC, make sure it is
uploaded in ASCII (non-image) format. If it is not in ASCII, the
Interchange catalog can break.

=head2 How will Akopia support Interchange?

Akopia will:

=over 4

=item 1.

Quickly follow up on cogent bug reports. A bug is a demonstrated fault
in the program logic that can be duplicated. A cogent bug report is
detailed and concise, and includes HTML/code snippets that demonstrate
the problem. Bugs can be entered on Bugzilla at
http://developer.akopia.com

=item 2.

Take note of faults in the demonstrations. Any fixes will be discussed
on the mailing list and may be fixed in the next release version of
Interchange.

=item 3.

Take note of faults in the documentation and update the next release
version of Interchange. Edited replacement text is appreciated. The
documentation source is available to see how it is maintained.

=item 4.

Respond to some of the well-presented questions that appear on the
mailing list.

=item 5.

Try to constantly and incrementally improve the FAQ and other
supporting information.

=back

=head2 I want to partner with Akopia, or exchange links, etc.

Akopia receives many partnering requests. Keep in mind:

=over 4

=item Payment Gateways

There are literally dozens of different companies doing e-commerce
payment services on the web. Akopia has received inquiries from many
of them over time. The only way Akopia will consider putting in
support for a specific payment gateway is if it is a funded consulting
project. This usually costs thousands of dollars and is prohibitive.

Users have integrated Interchange with many different payment
gateways, such as CyberCash, Signio, and Authorize.net. Akopia
supports CyberCash and Signio directly in Interchange because they are
market leaders. Interchange easily integrates user gateways.

=item Directory Listings

Interchange may be listed in software directories but not on mail
lists. Akopia will not maintain the listing.

=item CD-ROM Distributions

Interchange may be distributed unchanged on a CD-ROM. Akopia requests
that they be sent a copy of the CD-ROM.

=item Reselling

Interchange is GNU GPL licensed. See the GNU web site
C<http://www.gnu.org/> for more information.

=item Akopia Services

While Interchange has many appealing features, the true value of the
Akopia solution lies in the comprehensive support provided throughout
all stages of an e-business integration. Regardless of the extent of
service you require, Akopia's experienced staff is dedicated to
ensuring the success of an e-commerce implementation.

=item Akopia Professional Services

Akopia Professional Services are designed to build the most successful
e-business architecture possible. Professional services encompass
complete site development and integration, from needs assessment and
planning to testing and deployment.

Akopia's Professional Services team is experienced and trained to
maximize the power and flexibility of the Interchange platform. Akopia
offers professional services for projects of all sizes and scopes,
from smaller projects to traditional full lifecycle engagements.

Akopia professional services include:

=over 8

=item *

Strategic consulting

=item *

Site architecture

=item *

Web development

=item *

Systems integration

=item *

User Interface Design

=item *

Deployment services

=back

=item Akopia Managed Services

Many businesses would rather not commit valuable time and resources to
the challenges associated with operating 24x7 customer-facing systems.
With Akopia Managed Services, you can focus on running your business
while our expert team ensures your site is performing optimally and
your applications are continuously monitored.

Akopia Managed Services include:

=over 8

=item *

Site hosting

=item *

Application monitoring and support

=item *

Database backup and maintenance

=item *

Service Level Agreements

=back

=item Akopia Technical Support Services

Akopia provides access to our expert consultants by both telephone and
electronic support offerings. A variety of support packages are
available, and can be purchased according to your specific needs, such
as frequency and response time.

=item Akopia Training Services

Akopia offers Interchange training options for technical and business
professionals. We will customize a training program that is
appropriate to your business needs.

=over 8

=item *

Akopia and Interchange are registered trademarks of Akopia, Inc. All
other product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their
respective manufacturers. This version of the document supersedes any
and all previous versions.

=back

=back

