=head1 NAME

icrpm - Interchange RPM for Redhat Systems

=head2 VERSION

4.04

=head1 SYNOPSIS

rpm -Uvh interchange-4.X.X-X.rpm

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Interchange 4 RPM is designed to integrate Interchange with a stock Redhat
installation. It places logs and run files in fairly standard locations,
i.e.:

=over 4

=item Configuration

Configuration file is /etc/minivend.cfg. It is only writable by root.

=item Data

Catalog directories, at least the demos, are located in /var/lib/interchange.

=item Invocation

Invocation is the normal /etc/rc.d startup method. Interchange installs to
be active in run levels 3, 4, and 5; to be killed in all. 

IMPORTANT NOTE: Do not expect /usr/local/interchange/bin/restart to work!

Interchange uses a special invocation script, located at /usr/local/bin/interchange,
to start the Interchange server.  This is called by /etc/rc.d/init.d/interchange.

=item Run

Run files go in /var/run/interchange/*. The subdirectory is needed to allow
the Interchange user ID to write/create files.

=item Logs

Logs go in /var/log/interchange/*. The subdirectory is needed to allow
the Interchange user ID to write/create files.

=back

=head1 ASSUMPTIONS

The Interchange RPM makes several assumptions:

=over 4

=item Stock Apache

Interchange relies upon the following things in the Apache installation:

 -- Server root in /home/httpd
 -- ScriptAlias /cgi-bin/ /home/httpd/cgi-bin/
 -- Hostname as revealed by `hostname` is the ServerName
 -- SuExec not enabled

If you have SuExec enabled, you are responsible for changing permissions
and running parameters appropriately. You can typically disable SuEXEC
by running C<chmod u-s /usr/bin/suexec>.

If you want to continue to user suexec, you will have to compile the appropriate
INET mode link program and use it instead of VLINK.

=item Logs

Logs are located in /var/log/interchange.  Interchange drops a file in
/etc/logrotate.d to do log rotation.

=item Run files

To place the logs, configuration, and run files in standard Redhat/LSB 
locations, Interchange relies on a special invocation from /usr/local/bin/minivend.
In other words, don't expect /usr/local/minivend/bin/restart to work.

Interchange will be started by this command:

    /etc/rc.d/init.d/interchange start

and will be re-started by this command:

    /etc/rc.d/init.d/interchange restart

or possibly:

    /usr/local/bin/interchange -r

The run files, i.e. UNIX-domain socket, catalog status files, will be
placed in /var/run/interchange. That directory must be owned/writable by
the interchange user ID.

=back

=head1 USING INTERCHANGE

When the installation finishes, you should be able to access the two
installed catalogs:

	http://localhost/barry/
	http://localhost/simple/

The initial user name is "interchange", and the password is "pass". CHANGE IT.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Documentation and other information on Interchange is at:

	http://www.akopia.com/

There will soon be a developer site. For now, use:

	http://www.minivend.com/minivend/

=head1 AUTHOR

Mike Heins, <heins@akopia.com>. Questions should be directed to the
Minivend user list, <minivend-users@minivend.com>.

